The Convergence Matrix is composed of two fundamental data elements: *Communities of Practice*, or *Communities* and the *FAIR-Enabling Digital Resource*, or *Resource*. 

A **Resource** provides a function needed to achieve FAIRness and is explicitly linked to one or more *FAIR Principles*. Examples of Resources include data and metadata standards (such as vocabularies, formats), data repositories, policies, and training materials. **Communities** have been intentionally defined in a permissive manner in the Convergence Matrix to encourage as broad participation as possible: they are self-identified entities (not limited to, for example, formal legal entities); they can be large or small (although as a consensus-building exercise, communities must be composed of more than one person); they are fluid (in that communities can grow, shrink, merge and split); and they may have multiple identity principles (e.g., by topical domain, by project organizations, by institutional affiliations). Every community has a **Spokesperson** (domain-specific FAIR data steward or coordinator) who takes responsibility for completing the questionnaire on behalf of the Community, and who can be contacted by others when there are technical questions about Resource use.

When a Community wishes to implement the FAIR Principles to create and exchange FAIR data and services, it must first make careful **Considerations** about a number of generic, domain-specific, and cross-domain **Requirements** and **Constraints**. These Considerations will clarify the FAIR-related needs of the Community, that translate into the many implementation Choices to be Made regarding Resources that enable maximum reuse and interoperation. 

The Convergence Matrix workflow begins when a Community is presented, via the *Questionnaire*, with a list of **Choices to be Made**. In each instance, the **Choice Made** by the Community Spokesperson is for a Resource that is either already **Available for Use** or if the Resource does not yet exist, then the Community may announce a **Challenge to Implement** it. The Challenge to Implement could be self-directed back to the Community, or ‘given away’ to other members of the stakeholder community who are able and willing to launch new Resource development projects. Hence, for any given Choice to be Made presented by the Questionnaire via the Wizard interface, a Community must either make a **Commitment to Reuse** a Resource that is Available for Use or make a **Challenge Proposal** to build an entirely new Resource. 

In this conceptualisation, all existing Resources that are now Available for Use, were at one time proposed as a Challenge to Implement. In the Convergence Matrix, these Community relations to Resources are explicit and publicly registered as Choices Made. As such, the Convergence Matrix encourages wherever possible reuse of existing resources but will also track the accumulated list of implementation challenges, providing a FAIR development ‘road map’ for the community-at-large.
