# FAIR Implementation Profile Convergence Matrix

Powerful incentives are driving the adoption of FAIR practices among a broad cross-section of stakeholderspublic and private sector organisations. This adoption process must factor in numerous considerations regarding the use of both domain-specific and infrastructural resources. These considerations must be made for each of the FAIR Principles and include supra-domain objectives such as the maximum reuse of existing resources (i.e., minimised reinvention of the wheel) or maximum interoperation with existing FAIR data and services. Together, these considerations imply a very large number of interrelated decisions on the use and reuse of FAIR-enabling resources. Despite the complexity of this task, it is likely that the majority of the decisions will be redundant across communities and that communities can expedite their own FAIR adoption process by judiciously reusing the implementation choices already made by others. To leverage these redundancies and accelerate convergence onto widespread reuse of FAIR implementations, we have developed athe conceptual model called the FAIR Implementation Profile (FIP) that captures the comprehensive set of implementation choices made at the discretion of individual communities of practice. The collection of community-specific FIPs compose a repository called the FIP Convergence Matrix which can be used to track the evolving landscape of FAIR implementations and inform optimisation around reuse and interoperation. Ready-made and well-tested FIPs created by trusted communities will find widespread reuse among other communities and could vastly accelerate well-informed implementation of the FAIR Principles within and between domains.

- [FIP Convergence Matrix Model](FIP-Matrix.pdf)
- [FIP Convergence Matrix Description](FIP-description.md)
- [FIP Wizard](https://fip-wizard.ds-wizard.org)
- FIP Wizard questions mindmap: [PDF](FIP-MM.pdf), [FreeMind](FIP-MM.mm), [MindManager](FIP-MM.opml)
- [FIP Wizard questions export](gofair_fip-wizard_4.0.6.json) -- human-readable and machine-actionable export for further processing, e.g. to transform into various questionnaire systems formats